<h1> Welcome to my Github Page! </h1>
<h2> My name is Gavin, I'm a student at George Mason University </h2>
<body> I love learning about computers, and I have experience in Python, JAVA, and HTML.
Other than making programs, I also like to try different operating systems and learn about the latest technology.
This is a repository of my favorite programs I've made during my college career so far.</body>


<h2> Here are the programs I've made in JAVA and what they do: </h2>

<h3><b>Array Duplication</b></h3>
    <body>This program asks for the size of your list (array), 
    then it generates numbers for that list that are greater than 0, but
    less than 100. Afterwards it duplicates the array and makes it twice as big,
    so, you can add your own values between 50 - 100. If the number isn't between 50 - 100,
    it will give an error message and exit the program. Lastly the program will display the entire array,
    add up the values and give you the sum, count the even and odd values, then give the average of all the values. </body>
    
<h3><b>Average Temperature Calculator</b></h3>
    <body>This program was designed to test raising errors and returning to the program,
so, the program doesn't exit as soon as there is an error. The program first asks for the number of 
temperatures you want to get the average value of, then checks to make sure it's greater than 0. Then it prompts you to 
enter in the temperatures, if they're less than -20 or greater than 120, the program gives
an error. Lastly, it'll give the user the average value of the temperatures. </body>

<h3><b>Vowel Count Program</b></h3>
    <body>This program was designed to iterate through a string and find
how many vowels are in it. Once it iterates through the string, it'll display in plain text
    how many instances of each vowel there are. </body>
    
<h2>Here are the programs I've made in Python and what they do:</h2>

<h3><b>Crime Reports</b></h3>
    <body>This program reads in a file called CrimeReports.csv taken from the Fairfax County Police Department.
After reading the file the program shows every crime and where it happened, then it tries using different filters
I added to the programs code. It shows crimes during a certain week, what type of crime, and the locality, 
after every filter it shows the number of crimes based on that filter. Lastly, it shows the percentage of crimes in Fairfax
county based on zip code, then the percentage of crimes based on the type of crime. </body>

<h3><b>Student and Faculty Program </b></h3>
    <body>This program takes in different students and faculty that are written in the body of the program,
it then adds them to the different departments if they meet the criteria. If the student doesn't meet the criteria, or the
department is full, the program will return an error. The program can then adjust information of the students, so if a student
doesn't have a high enough GPA, the program can add a grade (such as an A) to the student. It then recalculates the GPA
and if the student has a high enough GPA and the department isn't full, it will add the student. The program
also makes sure the student isn't added twice and that the student is enrolled. For the G number (the student ID number
used at George Mason) the program just adds 1 to a five-digit 00000 number, so each student has a unique G number. </body>

<h3><b>Banking Program</b></h3>
<body> Before I took IT 209, I took a Python programming class at Northern Virginia Community College. I made this program to
touch up on my prior skills and to incorporate the skills I learned in the class. The program asks for a username that is five
characters long or returns an error if the username isn't long enough or too long. It then asks for a password greater than 
eight characters long and does the same thing. Lastly, it asks for an initial deposit, which must be greater than $0.
    Afterwards it asks for the username and password, if they are incorrect, the 
program keeps asking until the correct username and password are entered and displays the main menu. The user can add more money,
withdraw money, check their account information, or log out, which exits the program. If they add or withdraw money, the program
will display an error if the deposit is less than $1. For withdraws, it will display an error if the withdraw is greater than
the balance in the account. The routing number and bank account numbers in the information screen in the program are randomly
generated by the program. </body>



